So that was a lot of talking about what progressive web apps are, why we use them and what we're
going to build in this course.
Now let's see what exactly we'll learn in this course and how we'll walk through all these topics.
Well right now, we're still getting started but we're almost done and in the next module, we'll have a look
at the application manifest.
This is this document which tells the browser more about our web application and you'll learn everything
about it in the second module.
Thereafter, we'll already dive into service workers because they are such a core building block. Now service
workers and in general, a lot of progressive web features use promises and the fetch API.
Therefore I'll have a short module where I briefly refresh the knowledge about these core concepts
so that we're all on the same page because we're going to use a lot of promises and the fetch API throughout the course.
It's easy to use that,
I just want to make sure that we all know what we're using there.
Now once we got that refresher, we'll head back to service workers and learn how we can use them to provide
offline access through caching.
We'll then continue on this road and dive into advanced caching strategies using service workers, to
really have the right strategy for which ever asset you're going to load in which ever situation in your
app.
After that, we'll have a look at how we can cache dynamic content with indexedDB because thus far, we
will have cached assets like CSS files, script files, images.
Now what about JSON data you get back from a rest endpoint?
We can cache that too
and there you will learn how to best do that.
Once we did that, we'll have a look at responsive design.
Now I already said I won't dive into it super deeply here because there are whole courses about that
and you can indeed create whole courses about that,
so I just want to give you some core features, some basics you need to know but I definitely encourage
you to pick up a separate course on this topic,
it's super important and more than I could fit in to this course where I really want to focus on all the
other core technologies. Now,
with responsive design added, we'll go back to these new core technologies and we'll have a look at
background synchronization next which describes the process of us sending something whilst we're offline and therefore
of course it would fail
but of a way to store that and send it when the internet connection is re-established even if we did
close the application by then. You'll learn it in this module and thereafter, we have a look at web
push notifications,
so how we can receive and send push notifications even if our application is closed.
Now as a next step, we'll have a look at the media API and geolocation,
these are not strictly core features of a progressive web app but since you typically use native device
features in progressive web apps, it's super important to know how to use two of the most important
and popular features
you can use on a real device and I'll dive into this in this module. Now after that, we learned a lot
about the different technologies and we'll see that it can get hard to manage all our service worker code.
Therefore we'll then dive into automated service worker management,
I will show you a tool you can use to make a lot of the things you had to do manually before
easier by doing them automatically
and once we did this, I'll dive into single page applications and progressive web apps to show you how
to turn your number one favorite framework application into a single page application with ease.
With that, we'll have learned a lot,
this course will do more than just get you started with progressive web apps,
it will really allow you to use that knowledge, dive deeper,
use it in your next project and I'm super excited to get started,
so let me spend one more word about the course project set up and how you get the most out of this course
and then we'll get right started and dive into the application manifest.